# MODEL1006230034: Wu2006_ATPsynthesis_SkeletalMuscle

## Installation

Download this repository, and install with distutils

`python setup.py install`

Or, install using pip

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/MODEL1006230034.git`

To install a specific version (in this example, from the 2014-09-16 BioModels release)

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/MODEL1006230034.git@20140916`


# Model Notes


This a model from the article:  
**Oxidative ATP synthesis in skeletal muscle is controlled by substrate feedback.**   
Wu F, Jeneson JA, Beard DA. _Am J Physiol Cell Physiol_ 2007
Jan;292(1):C115-24 [16837647](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16837647) ,  
**Abstract:**   
Data from (31)P-nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy of human forearm
flexor muscle were analyzed based on a previously developed model of
mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation (PLoS Comp Bio 1: e36, 2005) to test
the hypothesis that substrate level (concentrations of ADP and inorganic
phosphate) represents the primary signal governing the rate of mitochondrial
ATP synthesis and maintaining the cellular ATP hydrolysis potential in
skeletal muscle. Model-based predictions of cytoplasmic concentrations of
phosphate metabolites (ATP, ADP, and P(i)) matched data obtained from 20
healthy volunteers and indicated that as work rate is varied from rest to
submaximal exercise commensurate increases in the rate of mitochondrial ATP
synthesis are effected by changes in concentrations of available ADP and P(i).
Additional data from patients with a defect of complex I of the respiratory
chain and a patient with a deficiency in the mitochondrial adenine nucleotide
translocase were also predicted the by the model by making the appropriate
adjustments to the activities of the affected proteins associates with the
defects, providing both further validation of the biophysical model of the
control of oxidative phosphorylation and insight into the impact of these
diseases on the ability of the cell to maintain its energetic state.

This model was taken from the [CellML
repository](http://www.cellml.org/models) and automatically converted to SBML.  
The original model was: [ **Wu F, Jeneson JA, Beard DA. (2006) - version=1.0**
](http://models.cellml.org/exposure/ec7574d732f12eb524b118c86a2236cd)  
The original CellML model was created by:  
**Geoffrey Nunns**   
gnunns1@jhu.edu  
The University of Auckland  

This model originates from BioModels Database: A Database of Annotated
Published Models (http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels/). It is copyright (c)
2005-2011 The BioModels.net Team.  
To the extent possible under law, all copyright and related or neighbouring
rights to this encoded model have been dedicated to the public domain
worldwide. Please refer to [CC0 Public Domain
Dedication](http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/) for more
information.

In summary, you are entitled to use this encoded model in absolutely any
manner you deem suitable, verbatim, or with modification, alone or embedded it
in a larger context, redistribute it, commercially or not, in a restricted way
or not..  
  
To cite BioModels Database, please use: [Li C, Donizelli M, Rodriguez N,
Dharuri H, Endler L, Chelliah V, Li L, He E, Henry A, Stefan MI, Snoep JL,
Hucka M, Le Nov√®re N, Laibe C (2010) BioModels Database: An enhanced, curated
and annotated resource for published quantitative kinetic models. BMC Syst
Biol., 4:92.](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20587024)


